docs/index.rst, before:

.. _magicctapipe:

============================================
Welcome to ``magic-cta-pipe`` documentation!
============================================

.. currentmodule:: magicctapipe

**Version**: |version| **Date**: |today|

**Useful links**:
`Source Repository <https://github.com/cta-observatory/magic-cta-pipe>`__ |
`Issue Tracker <https://github.com/cta-observatory/magic-cta-pipe/issues>`__ |
`Discussions <https://github.com/cta-observatory/magic-cta-pipe/discussions>`__

**License**: BSD-3

**Python**: |python_requires|

**magic-cta-pipe** is a pipeline for the analysis of joint data taken with MAGIC and LST-1.

Check out the :doc:`user-guide/index` section for the analysis steps, including how to :ref:`installation` the project.

.. note::

   This project is under active development.

Contents
--------

.. _magicctapipe_docs:

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1
  :hidden:

  user-guide/index
  developer-guide/index
  api-reference/index

.. grid:: 1 2 2 3

   .. grid-item-card::

      :octicon:`book;40px`

      User Guide
      ^^^^^^^^^^

      Learn how to get started as a user. This guide
      will help you install and using magic-cta-pipe.

      +++

      .. button-ref:: user-guide/index
         :expand:
         :color: primary
         :click-parent:

         To the user guide

   .. grid-item-card::

      :octicon:`git-branch;40px`

      Developer Guide
      ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

      Learn how to get started as a developer.
      This guide will help you install magic-cta-pipe for development
      and explains how to contribute.

      +++

      .. button-ref:: developer-guide/index
         :expand:
         :color: primary
         :click-parent:

         To the developer guide

   .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`code;40px`

        API Docs
        ^^^^^^^^

        The API docs contain detailed descriptions of
        of the various modules, classes and functions
        included in ctapipe.

        +++

        .. button-ref:: api-reference/index
            :expand:
            :color: primary
            :click-parent:

            To API docs

Commit message:

Add note about LST-1 data versions also in documentation.

docs/index.rst, after:

.. _magicctapipe:

============================================
Welcome to ``magic-cta-pipe`` documentation!
============================================

.. currentmodule:: magicctapipe

**Version**: |version| **Date**: |today|

**Useful links**:
`Source Repository <https://github.com/cta-observatory/magic-cta-pipe>`__ |
`Issue Tracker <https://github.com/cta-observatory/magic-cta-pipe/issues>`__ |
`Discussions <https://github.com/cta-observatory/magic-cta-pipe/discussions>`__

**License**: BSD-3

**Python**: |python_requires|

**magic-cta-pipe** is a pipeline for the analysis of joint data taken with MAGIC and LST-1.

Check out the :doc:`user-guide/index` section for the analysis steps, including how to :ref:`installation` the project.

.. note::

   This project is under active development.

.. note::

   At the moment of the release v0.4.1 of *magic-cta-pipe*, some LST-1 data are processed with *cta-lstchain* v0.9.x,
   while the most recent ones are processed with v0.10.x.
   According to this, if you need to analyze joint data where the version of LST-1 data is different, then:

   * if LST-1 data were processed with *cta-lstchain* v0.9.x, you need to use *magic-cta-pipe* v0.3.1
   * if LST-1 data were processed with *cta-lstchain* v0.10.x, you need to use *magic-cta-pipe* v0.4.1

   Note that there are quite a lot of differences between v0.3.1 and v0.4.1, like for the telescope combinations definition,
   the way IRF are created (due to different *pyirf* versions) and so on. Therefore it may not be straightforward to stack the
   data at high level. Once all the LST-1 DL1 data will be reprocessed, *magic-cta-pipe* v0.4.1 will be the only version to use
   for the joint analysis.

Contents
--------

.. _magicctapipe_docs:

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1
  :hidden:

  user-guide/index
  developer-guide/index
  api-reference/index

.. grid:: 1 2 2 3

   .. grid-item-card::

      :octicon:`book;40px`

      User Guide
      ^^^^^^^^^^

      Learn how to get started as a user. This guide
      will help you install and using magic-cta-pipe.

      +++

      .. button-ref:: user-guide/index
         :expand:
         :color: primary
         :click-parent:

         To the user guide

   .. grid-item-card::

      :octicon:`git-branch;40px`

      Developer Guide
      ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

      Learn how to get started as a developer.
      This guide will help you install magic-cta-pipe for development
      and explains how to contribute.

      +++

      .. button-ref:: developer-guide/index
         :expand:
         :color: primary
         :click-parent:

         To the developer guide

   .. grid-item-card::

        :octicon:`code;40px`

        API Docs
        ^^^^^^^^

        The API docs contain detailed descriptions of
        of the various modules, classes and functions
        included in ctapipe.

        +++

        .. button-ref:: api-reference/index
            :expand:
            :color: primary
            :click-parent:

            To API docs
